# Alternative government

A country / state government generally governs over huge portions of people and their lives, without really knowing who they are and what are their problems. There's a huge hole in communication between the policy makers and their electorate. Besides, a government has a hand in almost everything. Let's say we're talking about housing. A government can do whatever they want to the housing market of a whole country of 300 million people (say the US). That's insane.

Most likely none to very few policymakers truly care what happens thousands miles away, or even in the town next to theirs. Large cities are the same way because nobody really cares what happens in a different district. People care about their own space. The block or suburb where they live in, the commute to work and back, the restaurants they visit and parks they enjoy sunlight in. People need to have a say in what happens there, but they shouldn't really have a say about others' spaces. And because they don't personally manage their collective space, someone needs to. Of course people can't be managing things they don't understand, so for each need, there's a separate governing body.

For example, for each community there needs to be an urban planning board. That board will be responsible for analysing and defining the urban planning needs. It must be comprised of people with a proven track record in the urban planning industry. Depending on the supply of experienced urban planners within the community, there would be a different price for their services.

Who would hire and manage these planning boards you ask? Since the boards are based on the communities they represent, these communities must find the board members. With appropriate hiring platforms and other tools this shouldn’t be a problem. Each member of the community will have a different influence score based on their experience in urban planning and their consumption of urban planning goods. Most of the people will have some influence because they spend time in the community and are affected by urban planning decisions, and some people will have more influence because they also have experience in urban planning industry. 

Everybody who wants to be a part of the community registers with an organization managing the community memberships by providing some proof of living / working or otherwise spending time in the community. This organization uses publicly available, open source software. Geographical community borders are defined by a different organization defining city, village or other settlement borders. This organization is made up of people living in a certain geographical area. They vote on which settlement they want to join but in order for a settlement to be recognized there needs to be a lower limit for how few people constitute a settlement and there can’t be settlements within other settlements. The voting is done through open source software (same as the membership org).

How do people obtain proof of being a part of the community? Well, they bring as much available information of their being in the community, such as proof of work, rent agreements, real estate purchases, investments, as well as store receipts, bus or museum tickets etc. from the trailing year, lets say, to limit members to people who actually spend time there and not just invest in real estate. Great, people now have community memberships! With these memberships, they can obtain work, get medical services, drivers licenses and most importantly, vote for boards for different public services. If they’ve just moved to the community, and can only provide, say, a rent agreement, they will still be registered as a member but their voting power will be reduced.

Community members vote for board members all the time and the latter can be outvoted immediately if there is someone better to replace them. Again, community members’ votes are weighted by their involvement and professional experience within the industry. The board would be directly accessible by everybody to view the past, ongoing and planned projects and give their feedback or suggestions. All of the boards will be accessible through the community planning platform.

All of the companies involved in this process are 100% publicly owned and use/develop open source software.

—

Of course a community needs more than an urban planning board. It needs medical, education, security, finance boards etc. And because small communities generally aren’t rich in professionals, they will either join larger communities or cough up more money for professionals to work at their boards. Communities will be able to elect community leaders, as they will see the complete resumes and community involvement of all of the candidates. These community leaders will then be able to communicate with each other to form coalitions between communities to foster growth.

Then there are the service providers. The boards decide on the providers for their communities and these providers handle the given aspect of this community. These companies are paid by other companies selling their services within the community. The necessary funds are collected through bank accounts made automatically when proposing projects. These accounts are destinations for a part of the income of companies in the community. Through the community planning platform, we can see all the companies operating within the community and taxes they pay on their revenue. There’s a variable rate of X% a year, depending on the number and scale of community projects and companies.

—

So the end user - aka every person living in a community, needs only to register within their community membership org and they will have access to everything necessary to thrive in their community - for profit companies operating there (easily searchable for services, job listings etc) and non-profit, open source, publicly owned organizations regulating the companies and providing public services.